README.md, before:


<div align="center">
  <img src="docs/images/dayflow_header.png" alt="Dayflow" width="400">
</div>

<div align="center">
  <em>A timeline of your day, automatically.</em><br>
  Turns your screen activity into a clean timeline with AI summaries and distraction highlights.
</div>

<div align="center">
  <!-- Badges -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/macOS-13%2B-000?logo=apple" alt="Platform: macOS 13+">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SwiftUI-✓-orange" alt="SwiftUI">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Updates-Sparkle-informational" alt="Updates: Sparkle">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/AI-Gemini%20or%20Local-blue" alt="AI: Gemini / Local">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green" alt="License: MIT">
</div>

<div align="center">
  <img src="docs/images/hero_animation_1080p.gif" alt="Dayflow Hero Animation" width="800">
</div>

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/JerryZLiu/Dayflow/releases/latest">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Download%20for%20Mac-⬇%20%20Dayflow.dmg-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=apple" alt="Download for Mac">
  </a>
</div>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#quickstart">Quickstart</a> •
  <a href="#why-i-built-dayflow">Why I built Dayflow</a> •
  <a href="#features">Features</a> •
  <a href="#how-it-works">How it works</a> •
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a> •
  <a href="#data--privacy">Data & Privacy</a> •
  <a href="#automation">Automation</a> •
  <a href="#debug--developer-tools">Debug & Developer Tools</a> •
  <a href="#auto-updates-sparkle">Auto‑updates</a> •
  <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a>
</p>

---

## What is Dayflow?

Dayflow is a **native macOS app** (SwiftUI) that records your screen at **1 FPS**, analyzes it **every 15 minutes** with AI, and generates a **timeline** of your activities with summaries. 
It's lightweight (25MB app size) and uses ~100MB of RAM and <1% cpu. 

> _Privacy‑minded by design_: You choose your AI provider. Use **Gemini** (bring your own API key) or **local models** (Ollama / LM Studio). See **Data & Privacy** for details.


## Why I built Dayflow

I built Dayflow after realizing that my calendar wasn't the source of truth for how I actually spent my time. My screen was. I wanted a calm, trustworthy timeline that let me see my workday without turning into yet another dashboard I had to maintain.

Dayflow stands for ownership and privacy by default. You control the data, you choose the AI provider, and you can keep everything local if that's what makes you comfortable. It's MIT licensed and fully open source because anything that watches your screen all day should be completely transparent about what it does with that information. The app should feel like a quiet assistant: respectful of your attention, honest about what it captures, and easy to shut off.


---

## Features

- **Automatic timeline** of your day with concise summaries.
- **1 FPS recording** - minimal CPU/storage impact.
- **15-minute analysis intervals** for timely updates.
- **Watch timelapses of your day**.
- **Auto storage cleanup** - removes old recordings after 3 days.
- **Distraction highlights** to see what pulled you off‑task.
- **Native UX** built with **SwiftUI**.
- **Auto‑updates** with **Sparkle** (daily check + background download).

### Coming soon

- **Infinitely customizable dashboard** — ask any question about your workday, pipe the answers into tiles you arrange yourself, and track trends over time.

  <div align="center">
    <img src="docs/images/DashboardPreview.png" alt="Dayflow dashboard preview" width="800">
  </div>

- **Daily journal** — review the highlights Dayflow captured, reflect with guided prompts, and drop screenshots or notes alongside your generated timeline.

  <div align="center">
    <img src="docs/images/JournalPreview.png" alt="Dayflow journal preview" width="800">
  </div>

## How it works

1) **Capture** — Records screen at 1 FPS in 15-second chunks.
2) **Analyze** — Every 15 minutes, sends recent footage to AI.
3) **Generate** — AI creates timeline cards with activity summaries.
4) **Display** — Shows your day as a visual timeline.
5) **Cleanup** — Auto-deletes recordings older than 3 days.

### AI Processing Pipeline

The efficiency of your timeline generation depends on your chosen AI provider:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph Gemini["Gemini Flow: 2 LLM Calls"]
        direction LR
        GV[Video] --> GU[Upload + Transcribe<br/>1 LLM call] --> GC[Generate Cards<br/>1 LLM call] --> GD[Done]
    end

    subgraph Local["Local Flow: 33+ LLM Calls"]
        direction LR
        LV[Video] --> LE[Extract 30 frames] --> LD[30 descriptions<br/>30 LLM calls] --> LM[Merge<br/>1 call] --> LT[Title<br/>1 call] --> LC[Merge Check<br/>1 call] --> LMC[Merge Cards<br/>1 call] --> LD2[Done]
    end

    %% Styling
    classDef geminiFlow fill:#e8f5e8,stroke:#4caf50,stroke-width:2px
    classDef localFlow fill:#fff8e1,stroke:#ff9800,stroke-width:2px
    classDef geminiStep fill:#4caf50,color:#fff
    classDef localStep fill:#ff9800,color:#fff
    classDef processing fill:#f5f5f5,stroke:#666
    classDef result fill:#e3f2fd,stroke:#1976d2

    class Gemini geminiFlow
    class Local localFlow
    class GU,GC geminiStep
    class LD,LM,LT,LC,LMC localStep
    class GV,LV,LE processing
    class GD,LD2 result
```

**Gemini** leverages native video understanding for direct analysis, while **Local models** reconstruct understanding from individual frame descriptions - resulting in dramatically different processing complexity.


---

## Quickstart

**Download (end users)**
1. Grab the latest `Dayflow.dmg` from **GitHub Releases**.
2. Open the app; grant **Screen & System Audio Recording** when prompted:  
   macOS → **System Settings** → **Privacy & Security** → **Screen & System Audio Recording** → enable **Dayflow**.

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/JerryZLiu/Dayflow/releases/latest">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Download%20for%20Mac-⬇%20%20Dayflow.dmg-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=apple" alt="Download the latest Dayflow.dmg">
  </a>
</div>

**Build from source (developers)**
1. Install **Xcode 15+** and open `Dayflow.xcodeproj`.
2. Run the `Dayflow` scheme on macOS 13+.
3. In your Run **scheme**, add your `GEMINI_API_KEY` under _Arguments > Environment Variables_ (if using Gemini).

---

## Installation

### Requirements
- macOS **13.0+**
- Xcode **15+**
- A **Gemini API key** (if using Gemini): https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/api-key

### From Releases
1. Download `Dayflow.dmg` and drag **Dayflow** into **Applications**.
2. Launch and grant the **Screen & System Audio Recording** permission.

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/JerryZLiu/Dayflow/releases/latest">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Download%20for%20Mac-⬇%20%20Dayflow.dmg-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=apple" alt="Download the latest Dayflow.dmg">
  </a>
</div>

### From source
```bash
git clone https://github.com/JerryZLiu/Dayflow.git
cd Dayflow
open Dayflow.xcodeproj
# In Xcode: select the Dayflow target, configure signing if needed, then Run.
```

### Homebrew

If you are using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/), you can install [Dayflow](https://formulae.brew.sh/cask/dayflow) with:

```bash
$ brew install --cask dayflow
```

---

## Data & Privacy

This section explains **what Dayflow stores locally**, **what leaves your machine**, and **how provider choices affect privacy**.

### Data locations (on your Mac)

The `Dayflow` folder that contains most of your information is likely in one of two places:
1. `~/Library/Application Support/Dayflow/`
2. `~Library/Containers/teleportlabs.com.Dayflow/Data/Library/Application Support/Dayflow/`

The former is most likely, the latter is if the app has been installed in a "sandbox" of container, The below paths and files should be created when the app is first launched.

- **Recordings (video chunks):** `Dayflow/recordings/` (or choose "Open Recordings..." from the Dayflow Taskbar Icon Menu)
- **Local database:** `Dayflow/chunks.sqlite`
- **Recording details:** 1 FPS capture, analyzed every 15 minutes, 3-day retention
- **Purge / reset tip:** Quit Dayflow. Then delete the entire `Dayflow/` folder to remove recordings and analysis artifacts. Relaunch to start fresh.

### Processing modes & providers
- **Gemini (cloud, BYO key)** — Dayflow sends batch payloads to **Google’s Gemini API** for analysis.
- **Local models (Ollama / LM Studio)** — Processing stays **on‑device**; Dayflow talks to a **local server** you run.

### TL;DR: Gemini data handling (my reading of Google’s ToS)
- **Short answer: There is a way to prevent Google from training on your data.** If you **enable Cloud Billing** on **at least one** Gemini API project, Google treats **all of your Gemini API and Google AI Studio usage** under the **“Paid Services”** data‑use rules — **even when you’re using unpaid/free quota**. Under Paid Services, **Google does not use your prompts/responses to improve Google products/models**.  
  - Terms: “When you activate a Cloud Billing account, all use of Gemini API and Google AI Studio is a ‘Paid Service’ with respect to how Google Uses Your Data, even when using Services that are offered free of charge.” ([Gemini API Additional Terms](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/terms#paid-services-how-google-uses-your-data))  
  - Abuse monitoring: even under Paid Services, Google **logs prompts/responses for a limited period** for **policy enforcement and legal compliance**. ([Same Terms](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/terms#paid-services-how-google-uses-your-data))  
  - **EEA/UK/Switzerland:** the **Paid‑style data handling applies by default** to **all Services** (including AI Studio and unpaid quota) **even without billing**. ([Same Terms](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/terms#unpaid-services-how-google-uses-your-data))

**A couple useful nuances** (from docs + forum clarifications):
- **AI Studio is still free** to use; enabling billing changes **data handling**, not whether Studio charges you. ([Pricing page](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/pricing))  
- **UI “Plan: Paid” check:** In **AI Studio → API keys**, you’ll typically see “Plan: Paid” once billing is enabled on any linked project (UI may evolve).  
- **Free workaround:** _“Make one project paid, keep using a free key elsewhere to get the best of both worlds.”_ The **Terms** imply **account‑level** coverage once any billing account is activated, but the **Apps** nuance above may limit this in specific UI contexts. **Treat this as an interpretation, not legal advice.**

### Local mode: privacy & trade‑offs
- **Privacy:** With **Ollama/LM Studio**, prompts and model inference run on your machine. LM Studio documents full **offline** operation once models are downloaded.  
- **Quality/latency:** Local open models are improving but **can underperform** cloud models on complex summarization.  
- **Power/battery:** Local inference is **GPU‑heavy** on Apple Silicon and will drain battery faster; prefer **plugged‑in** sessions for long captures.  
- **Future:** We may explore **fine‑tuning** or distilling a local model for better timeline summaries.

References:  
- LM Studio offline: https://lmstudio.ai/docs/app/offline  
- Ollama GPU acceleration (Metal on Apple): https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/gpu.md

### Permissions (macOS)
To record your screen, Dayflow requires the **Screen & System Audio Recording** permission. Review or change later at:  
**System Settings → Privacy & Security → Screen & System Audio Recording**.  
Apple’s docs: https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/control-access-screen-system-audio-recording-mchld6aa7d23/mac

---

## Configuration

- **AI Provider**
  - Choose **Gemini** (set `GEMINI_API_KEY`) or **Local** (Ollama/LM Studio endpoint).  
  - For Gemini keys: https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/api-key
- **Capture settings**
  - Start/stop capture from the main UI. Use **Debug** to verify batch contents.
- **Data locations**
  - See **Data & Privacy** for exact paths and a purge tip.

---

## Automation

Dayflow registers a `dayflow://` URL scheme so you can trigger common actions from Shortcuts, hotkey launchers, or scripts.

**Supported URLs**
- `dayflow://start-recording` — enable capture (no-op if already recording)
- `dayflow://stop-recording` — pause capture (no-op if already paused)

**Quick checks**
- From Terminal: `open dayflow://start-recording` or `open dayflow://stop-recording`
- In Shortcuts: add an **Open URLs** action with either link above

Deeplink-triggered state changes are logged as `reason: "deeplink"` in analytics so you can distinguish automations from manual toggles.

---

## Debug & Developer Tools

You can click the Dayflow icon in the menu bar and view the saved recordings

---

## Auto‑updates (Sparkle)

Dayflow integrates **Sparkle** via Swift Package Manager and shows the current version + a “Check for updates” action. By default, the updater **auto‑checks daily** and **auto‑downloads** updates.


## Project structure

```
Dayflow/
├─ Dayflow/                 # SwiftUI app sources (timeline UI, debug UI, capture & analysis pipeline)
├─ docs/                    # Appcast and documentation assets (screenshots, videos)
├─ scripts/                 # Release automation (DMG, notarization, appcast, Sparkle signing, one-button release)
```

---

## Troubleshooting

- **Screen capture is blank or fails**  
  Check System Settings → Privacy & Security → **Screen & System Audio Recording** and ensure **Dayflow** is enabled.
- **API errors**  
  Go into settings and verify your `GEMINI_API_KEY` and network connectivity.

---

## Roadmap

- [ ] V1 of the Dashboard (track answers to custom questions)
- [ ] V1 of the daily journal
- [ ] Fine tuning a small VLM 

---

## Contributing

PRs welcome! If you plan a larger change, please open an issue first to discuss scope and approach.  

---

## License

Licensed under the MIT License. See LICENSE for the full text.
Software is provided “AS IS”, without warranty of any kind.

---

## Acknowledgements

- [Sparkle](https://github.com/sparkle-project/Sparkle) for battle‑tested macOS updates.
- [Google AI Gemini API](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs) for analysis.
- [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) and [LM Studio](https://lmstudio.ai/) for local model support.

Commit message:

Add instructions for pushing to personal repo

README.md, after:


<div align="center">
  <img src="docs/images/dayflow_header.png" alt="Dayflow" width="400">
</div>

<div align="center">
  <em>A timeline of your day, automatically.</em><br>
  Now rebuilt with <strong>Electron</strong> so the same experience runs on macOS, Windows, and Linux.
</div>

<div align="center">
  <!-- Badges -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/macOS-13%2B-000?logo=apple" alt="Platform: macOS 13+">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SwiftUI-✓-orange" alt="SwiftUI">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Updates-Sparkle-informational" alt="Updates: Sparkle">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/AI-Gemini%20or%20Local-blue" alt="AI: Gemini / Local">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green" alt="License: MIT">
</div>

<div align="center">
  <img src="docs/images/hero_animation_1080p.gif" alt="Dayflow Hero Animation" width="800">
</div>

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/JerryZLiu/Dayflow/releases/latest">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Download%20for%20Mac-⬇%20%20Dayflow.dmg-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=apple" alt="Download for Mac">
  </a>
</div>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#quickstart">Quickstart</a> •
  <a href="#why-i-built-dayflow">Why I built Dayflow</a> •
  <a href="#features">Features</a> •
  <a href="#how-it-works">How it works</a> •
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a> •
  <a href="#data--privacy">Data & Privacy</a> •
  <a href="#automation">Automation</a> •
  <a href="#debug--developer-tools">Debug & Developer Tools</a> •
  <a href="#auto-updates-sparkle">Auto‑updates</a> •
  <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a>
</p>

---

## What is Dayflow?

Dayflow is a **native macOS app** (SwiftUI) that records your screen at **1 FPS**, analyzes it **every 15 minutes** with AI, and generates a **timeline** of your activities with summaries. 
It's lightweight (25MB app size) and uses ~100MB of RAM and <1% cpu. 

> _Privacy‑minded by design_: You choose your AI provider. Use **Gemini** (bring your own API key) or **local models** (Ollama / LM Studio). See **Data & Privacy** for details.


## Why I built Dayflow

I built Dayflow after realizing that my calendar wasn't the source of truth for how I actually spent my time. My screen was. I wanted a calm, trustworthy timeline that let me see my workday without turning into yet another dashboard I had to maintain.

Dayflow stands for ownership and privacy by default. You control the data, you choose the AI provider, and you can keep everything local if that's what makes you comfortable. It's MIT licensed and fully open source because anything that watches your screen all day should be completely transparent about what it does with that information. The app should feel like a quiet assistant: respectful of your attention, honest about what it captures, and easy to shut off.


---

## Features

- **Automatic timeline** of your day with concise summaries.
- **1 FPS recording** - minimal CPU/storage impact.
- **15-minute analysis intervals** for timely updates.
- **Watch timelapses of your day**.
- **Auto storage cleanup** - removes old recordings after 3 days.
- **Distraction highlights** to see what pulled you off‑task.
- **Cross-platform Electron UI** (macOS, Windows, Linux).
- **Auto‑updates** with **Sparkle** (daily check + background download).

## Quickstart (Electron)

The SwiftUI prototype has been reimplemented in Electron for cross-platform support.

```bash
npm install
npm start
```

### Repository layout (where to find the code)

- `Dayflow/` — the original SwiftUI macOS app source (with `DayflowTests/` and `DayflowUITests/`).
- `electron/` — the cross-platform Electron build (main, preload, renderer, and styles).
- `docs/` — marketing assets and screenshots referenced in this README.
- `scripts/` — helper scripts for builds and packaging.
- `docs/pushing.md` — how to push the current branch to your own remote.

If you open the repo root in an editor, you should see both the Swift project under `Dayflow/` and the Electron app under `electron/`.

What you get today:

- A live 1 FPS screen capture loop using the Electron `desktopCapturer` API.
- Automatic grouping of frames into 15-minute timeline blocks with thumbnail previews.
- Marker buttons to annotate your day while recording.
- A dark, desktop-friendly UI that mirrors the native Dayflow layout.

### Coming soon

- **Infinitely customizable dashboard** — ask any question about your workday, pipe the answers into tiles you arrange yourself, and track trends over time.

  <div align="center">
    <img src="docs/images/DashboardPreview.png" alt="Dayflow dashboard preview" width="800">
  </div>

- **Daily journal** — review the highlights Dayflow captured, reflect with guided prompts, and drop screenshots or notes alongside your generated timeline.

  <div align="center">
    <img src="docs/images/JournalPreview.png" alt="Dayflow journal preview" width="800">
  </div>

## How it works

1) **Capture** — Records screen at 1 FPS in 15-second chunks.
2) **Analyze** — Every 15 minutes, sends recent footage to AI.
3) **Generate** — AI creates timeline cards with activity summaries.
4) **Display** — Shows your day as a visual timeline.
5) **Cleanup** — Auto-deletes recordings older than 3 days.

### AI Processing Pipeline

The efficiency of your timeline generation depends on your chosen AI provider:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph Gemini["Gemini Flow: 2 LLM Calls"]
        direction LR
        GV[Video] --> GU[Upload + Transcribe<br/>1 LLM call] --> GC[Generate Cards<br/>1 LLM call] --> GD[Done]
    end

    subgraph Local["Local Flow: 33+ LLM Calls"]
        direction LR
        LV[Video] --> LE[Extract 30 frames] --> LD[30 descriptions<br/>30 LLM calls] --> LM[Merge<br/>1 call] --> LT[Title<br/>1 call] --> LC[Merge Check<br/>1 call] --> LMC[Merge Cards<br/>1 call] --> LD2[Done]
    end

    %% Styling
    classDef geminiFlow fill:#e8f5e8,stroke:#4caf50,stroke-width:2px
    classDef localFlow fill:#fff8e1,stroke:#ff9800,stroke-width:2px
    classDef geminiStep fill:#4caf50,color:#fff
    classDef localStep fill:#ff9800,color:#fff
    classDef processing fill:#f5f5f5,stroke:#666
    classDef result fill:#e3f2fd,stroke:#1976d2

    class Gemini geminiFlow
    class Local localFlow
    class GU,GC geminiStep
    class LD,LM,LT,LC,LMC localStep
    class GV,LV,LE processing
    class GD,LD2 result
```

**Gemini** leverages native video understanding for direct analysis, while **Local models** reconstruct understanding from individual frame descriptions - resulting in dramatically different processing complexity.


---

## Quickstart

**Download (end users)**
1. Grab the latest `Dayflow.dmg` from **GitHub Releases**.
2. Open the app; grant **Screen & System Audio Recording** when prompted:  
   macOS → **System Settings** → **Privacy & Security** → **Screen & System Audio Recording** → enable **Dayflow**.

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/JerryZLiu/Dayflow/releases/latest">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Download%20for%20Mac-⬇%20%20Dayflow.dmg-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=apple" alt="Download the latest Dayflow.dmg">
  </a>
</div>

**Build from source (developers)**
1. Install **Xcode 15+** and open `Dayflow.xcodeproj`.
2. Run the `Dayflow` scheme on macOS 13+.
3. In your Run **scheme**, add your `GEMINI_API_KEY` under _Arguments > Environment Variables_ (if using Gemini).

---

## Installation

### Requirements
- macOS **13.0+**
- Xcode **15+**
- A **Gemini API key** (if using Gemini): https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/api-key

### From Releases
1. Download `Dayflow.dmg` and drag **Dayflow** into **Applications**.
2. Launch and grant the **Screen & System Audio Recording** permission.

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/JerryZLiu/Dayflow/releases/latest">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Download%20for%20Mac-⬇%20%20Dayflow.dmg-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=apple" alt="Download the latest Dayflow.dmg">
  </a>
</div>

### From source
```bash
git clone https://github.com/JerryZLiu/Dayflow.git
cd Dayflow
open Dayflow.xcodeproj
# In Xcode: select the Dayflow target, configure signing if needed, then Run.
```

### Homebrew

If you are using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/), you can install [Dayflow](https://formulae.brew.sh/cask/dayflow) with:

```bash
$ brew install --cask dayflow
```

---

## Data & Privacy

This section explains **what Dayflow stores locally**, **what leaves your machine**, and **how provider choices affect privacy**.

### Data locations (on your Mac)

The `Dayflow` folder that contains most of your information is likely in one of two places:
1. `~/Library/Application Support/Dayflow/`
2. `~Library/Containers/teleportlabs.com.Dayflow/Data/Library/Application Support/Dayflow/`

The former is most likely, the latter is if the app has been installed in a "sandbox" of container, The below paths and files should be created when the app is first launched.

- **Recordings (video chunks):** `Dayflow/recordings/` (or choose "Open Recordings..." from the Dayflow Taskbar Icon Menu)
- **Local database:** `Dayflow/chunks.sqlite`
- **Recording details:** 1 FPS capture, analyzed every 15 minutes, 3-day retention
- **Purge / reset tip:** Quit Dayflow. Then delete the entire `Dayflow/` folder to remove recordings and analysis artifacts. Relaunch to start fresh.

### Processing modes & providers
- **Gemini (cloud, BYO key)** — Dayflow sends batch payloads to **Google’s Gemini API** for analysis.
- **Local models (Ollama / LM Studio)** — Processing stays **on‑device**; Dayflow talks to a **local server** you run.

### TL;DR: Gemini data handling (my reading of Google’s ToS)
- **Short answer: There is a way to prevent Google from training on your data.** If you **enable Cloud Billing** on **at least one** Gemini API project, Google treats **all of your Gemini API and Google AI Studio usage** under the **“Paid Services”** data‑use rules — **even when you’re using unpaid/free quota**. Under Paid Services, **Google does not use your prompts/responses to improve Google products/models**.  
  - Terms: “When you activate a Cloud Billing account, all use of Gemini API and Google AI Studio is a ‘Paid Service’ with respect to how Google Uses Your Data, even when using Services that are offered free of charge.” ([Gemini API Additional Terms](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/terms#paid-services-how-google-uses-your-data))  
  - Abuse monitoring: even under Paid Services, Google **logs prompts/responses for a limited period** for **policy enforcement and legal compliance**. ([Same Terms](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/terms#paid-services-how-google-uses-your-data))  
  - **EEA/UK/Switzerland:** the **Paid‑style data handling applies by default** to **all Services** (including AI Studio and unpaid quota) **even without billing**. ([Same Terms](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/terms#unpaid-services-how-google-uses-your-data))

**A couple useful nuances** (from docs + forum clarifications):
- **AI Studio is still free** to use; enabling billing changes **data handling**, not whether Studio charges you. ([Pricing page](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/pricing))  
- **UI “Plan: Paid” check:** In **AI Studio → API keys**, you’ll typically see “Plan: Paid” once billing is enabled on any linked project (UI may evolve).  
- **Free workaround:** _“Make one project paid, keep using a free key elsewhere to get the best of both worlds.”_ The **Terms** imply **account‑level** coverage once any billing account is activated, but the **Apps** nuance above may limit this in specific UI contexts. **Treat this as an interpretation, not legal advice.**

### Local mode: privacy & trade‑offs
- **Privacy:** With **Ollama/LM Studio**, prompts and model inference run on your machine. LM Studio documents full **offline** operation once models are downloaded.  
- **Quality/latency:** Local open models are improving but **can underperform** cloud models on complex summarization.  
- **Power/battery:** Local inference is **GPU‑heavy** on Apple Silicon and will drain battery faster; prefer **plugged‑in** sessions for long captures.  
- **Future:** We may explore **fine‑tuning** or distilling a local model for better timeline summaries.

References:  
- LM Studio offline: https://lmstudio.ai/docs/app/offline  
- Ollama GPU acceleration (Metal on Apple): https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/gpu.md

### Permissions (macOS)
To record your screen, Dayflow requires the **Screen & System Audio Recording** permission. Review or change later at:  
**System Settings → Privacy & Security → Screen & System Audio Recording**.  
Apple’s docs: https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/control-access-screen-system-audio-recording-mchld6aa7d23/mac

---

## Configuration

- **AI Provider**
  - Choose **Gemini** (set `GEMINI_API_KEY`) or **Local** (Ollama/LM Studio endpoint).  
  - For Gemini keys: https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/api-key
- **Capture settings**
  - Start/stop capture from the main UI. Use **Debug** to verify batch contents.
- **Data locations**
  - See **Data & Privacy** for exact paths and a purge tip.

---

## Automation

Dayflow registers a `dayflow://` URL scheme so you can trigger common actions from Shortcuts, hotkey launchers, or scripts.

**Supported URLs**
- `dayflow://start-recording` — enable capture (no-op if already recording)
- `dayflow://stop-recording` — pause capture (no-op if already paused)

**Quick checks**
- From Terminal: `open dayflow://start-recording` or `open dayflow://stop-recording`
- In Shortcuts: add an **Open URLs** action with either link above

Deeplink-triggered state changes are logged as `reason: "deeplink"` in analytics so you can distinguish automations from manual toggles.

---

## Debug & Developer Tools

You can click the Dayflow icon in the menu bar and view the saved recordings

---

## Auto‑updates (Sparkle)

Dayflow integrates **Sparkle** via Swift Package Manager and shows the current version + a “Check for updates” action. By default, the updater **auto‑checks daily** and **auto‑downloads** updates.


## Project structure

```
Dayflow/
├─ Dayflow/                 # SwiftUI app sources (timeline UI, debug UI, capture & analysis pipeline)
├─ docs/                    # Appcast and documentation assets (screenshots, videos)
├─ scripts/                 # Release automation (DMG, notarization, appcast, Sparkle signing, one-button release)
```

---

## Troubleshooting

- **Screen capture is blank or fails**  
  Check System Settings → Privacy & Security → **Screen & System Audio Recording** and ensure **Dayflow** is enabled.
- **API errors**  
  Go into settings and verify your `GEMINI_API_KEY` and network connectivity.

---

## Roadmap

- [ ] V1 of the Dashboard (track answers to custom questions)
- [ ] V1 of the daily journal
- [ ] Fine tuning a small VLM 

---

## Contributing

PRs welcome! If you plan a larger change, please open an issue first to discuss scope and approach.  

---

## License

Licensed under the MIT License. See LICENSE for the full text.
Software is provided “AS IS”, without warranty of any kind.

---

## Acknowledgements

- [Sparkle](https://github.com/sparkle-project/Sparkle) for battle‑tested macOS updates.
- [Google AI Gemini API](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs) for analysis.
- [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) and [LM Studio](https://lmstudio.ai/) for local model support.
